docs/DEBUG_API_SERVER.md, before:

# Debugging GraphQL server issues

The GraphQL server is an API middle layer, running on it's own port specified by `GRAPHQL_PORT`, to retrieve and show the data in the UI. It can also be used to retrieve data for custom third party integarions. Check the [API documentation](./API.md) for details.

The most common issue is that the GraphQL server doesn't start properly, usually due to a **port conflict**. If you are running multiple NetAlertX instances, make sure to use **unique ports** by changing the `GRAPHQL_PORT` setting. The default is `20212`.

## How to update the `GRAPHQL_PORT` in case of issues

As a first troubleshooting step try changing the default `GRAPHQL_PORT` setting. Please remember NetAlertX is running on the host so any application uising the same port will cause issues.

### Updating the setting via the Settings UI

Ideally use the Settings UI to update the setting under General -> Core -> GraphQL port:

![GrapQL settings](./img/DEBUG_API_SERVER/graphql_settings_port_token.png)

You might need to temporarily stop other applications or NetAlertX instances causing conflicts to update the setting. The `API_TOKEN` is used to authenticate any API calls, including GraphQL requests.

### Updating the `app.conf` file

If the UI is not accessible, you can directly edit the `app.conf` file in your `/config` folder:

![Editing app.conf](./img/DEBUG_API_SERVER/app_conf_graphql_port.png)

### Using a docker variable

All application settings can also be initialized via the `APP_CONF_OVERRIDE` docker env variable.

```yaml
...
 environment:
      - PORT=20213
      - APP_CONF_OVERRIDE={"GRAPHQL_PORT":"20214"}
...
```

## How to check the GraphQL server is running?

There are several ways to check if the GraphQL server is running.

### Init Check

You can navigate to System Info -> Init Check to see if `isGraphQLServerRunning` is ticked:

![Init Check](./img/DEBUG_API_SERVER/Init_check.png)

### Checking the Logs

You can navigate to Maintenance -> Logs and search for `graphql` to see if it started correctly and serving requests:

![GraphQL Logs](./img/DEBUG_API_SERVER/graphql_running_logs.png)

### Inspecting the Browser console

In your browser open the dev console (usually F12) and navigate to the Network tab where you can filter GraphQL requests (e.g., reload the Devices page).

![Browser Network Tab](./img/DEBUG_API_SERVER/network_graphql.png)

You can then inspect any of the POST requests by opening them in a new tab.

![Browser GraphQL Json](./img/DEBUG_API_SERVER/dev_console_graphql_json.png)

Commit message:

Coderabbit fixes: - Mac - Flask debug - Threaded flask - propagate token in GET requests - enhance spec docs - normalize MAC x2 - mcp disablement redundant private attribute - run all tests imports

docs/DEBUG_API_SERVER.md, after:

# Debugging GraphQL server issues

The GraphQL server is an API middle layer, running on it's own port specified by `GRAPHQL_PORT`, to retrieve and show the data in the UI. It can also be used to retrieve data for custom third party integarions. Check the [API documentation](./API.md) for details.

The most common issue is that the GraphQL server doesn't start properly, usually due to a **port conflict**. If you are running multiple NetAlertX instances, make sure to use **unique ports** by changing the `GRAPHQL_PORT` setting. The default is `20212`.

## How to update the `GRAPHQL_PORT` in case of issues

As a first troubleshooting step try changing the default `GRAPHQL_PORT` setting. Please remember NetAlertX is running on the host so any application uising the same port will cause issues.

### Updating the setting via the Settings UI

Ideally use the Settings UI to update the setting under General -> Core -> GraphQL port:

![GrapQL settings](./img/DEBUG_API_SERVER/graphql_settings_port_token.png)

You might need to temporarily stop other applications or NetAlertX instances causing conflicts to update the setting. The `API_TOKEN` is used to authenticate any API calls, including GraphQL requests.

### Updating the `app.conf` file

If the UI is not accessible, you can directly edit the `app.conf` file in your `/config` folder:

![Editing app.conf](./img/DEBUG_API_SERVER/app_conf_graphql_port.png)

### Using a docker variable

All application settings can also be initialized via the `APP_CONF_OVERRIDE` docker env variable.

```yaml
...
 environment:
      - PORT=20213
      - APP_CONF_OVERRIDE={"GRAPHQL_PORT":"20214"}
...
```

## How to check the GraphQL server is running?

There are several ways to check if the GraphQL server is running.

## Flask debug mode (environment)

You can control whether the Flask development debugger is enabled by setting the environment variable `FLASK_DEBUG` (default: `False`). Enabling debug mode will turn on the interactive debugger which may expose a remote code execution (RCE) vector if the server is reachable; **only enable this for local development** and never in production. Valid truthy values are: `1`, `true`, `yes`, `on` (case-insensitive).

In the running container you can set this variable via Docker Compose or your environment, for example:

```yaml
environment:
  - FLASK_DEBUG=1
```

When enabled, the GraphQL server startup logs will indicate the debug setting.

### Init Check

You can navigate to System Info -> Init Check to see if `isGraphQLServerRunning` is ticked:

![Init Check](./img/DEBUG_API_SERVER/Init_check.png)

### Checking the Logs

You can navigate to Maintenance -> Logs and search for `graphql` to see if it started correctly and serving requests:

![GraphQL Logs](./img/DEBUG_API_SERVER/graphql_running_logs.png)

### Inspecting the Browser console

In your browser open the dev console (usually F12) and navigate to the Network tab where you can filter GraphQL requests (e.g., reload the Devices page).

![Browser Network Tab](./img/DEBUG_API_SERVER/network_graphql.png)

You can then inspect any of the POST requests by opening them in a new tab.

![Browser GraphQL Json](./img/DEBUG_API_SERVER/dev_console_graphql_json.png)
