docs/PIHOLE_GUIDE.md, before:

# Integration with PiHole

NetAlertX comes with 2 plugins suitable for integrating with your existing PiHole instance. One plugin is using a direct SQLite DB connection, the other leverages the DHCP.leases file generated by PiHole. You can combine both approaches and also supplement it with other [plugins](/docs/PLUGINS.md). 

## Approach 1: `DHCPLSS` Plugin - Import devices from the PiHole DHCP leases file

![DHCPLSS sample settings](./img/PIHOLE_GUIDE/DHCPLSS_pihole_settings.png)

### Settings

| Setting | Description | Recommended value |
| :------------- | :------------- | :-------------|
| `DHCPLSS_RUN` | When the plugin should run.  | `schedule` |
| `DHCPLSS_RUN_SCHD` | If you run multiple device scanner plugins, align the schedules of all plugins to the same value.  | `*/5 * * * *` |
| `DHCPLSS_paths_to_check` | You need to map the value in this setting in the `docker-compose.yml` file. The in-container path must contain `pihole` so it's parsed correctly. | `['/etc/pihole/dhcp.leases']` |

Check the [DHCPLSS plugin readme](https://github.com/jokob-sk/NetAlertX/tree/main/front/plugins/dhcp_leases#overview) for details

### docker-compose changes

| Path | Description |
| :------------- | :------------- |
| `:/etc/pihole/dhcp.leases` |  PiHole's `dhcp.leases` file. Required if you want to use PiHole `dhcp.leases` file. This has to be matched with a corresponding `DHCPLSS_paths_to_check` setting entry (the path in the container must contain `pihole`) |


## Approach 2: `PIHOLE` Plugin - Import devices directly from the PiHole database

![DHCPLSS sample settings](./img/PIHOLE_GUIDE/PIHOLE_settings.png)

| Setting | Description | Recommended value |
| :------------- | :------------- | :-------------| 
| `PIHOLE_RUN` | When the plugin should run.  | `schedule` |
| `PIHOLE_RUN_SCHD` | If you run multiple device scanner plugins, align the schedules of all plugins to the same value.  | `*/5 * * * *` |
| `PIHOLE_DB_PATH` | You need to map the value in this setting in the `docker-compose.yml` file. | `/etc/pihole/pihole-FTL.db` |

Check the [PiHole plugin readme](https://github.com/jokob-sk/NetAlertX/tree/main/front/plugins/pihole_scan) for details

### docker-compose changes

| Path | Description |
| :------------- | :------------- |
| `:/etc/pihole/pihole-FTL.db` |  PiHole's `pihole-FTL.db` database file.  |


Check out other [plugins](/docs/PLUGINS.md) that can help you discover more about your network or check how to scan [Remote networks](./REMOTE_NETWORKS.md).

Commit message:

DOCS: pihole guide docs
Signed-off-by: jokob-sk <jokob.sk@gmail.com>

docs/PIHOLE_GUIDE.md, after:

# Integration with PiHole

NetAlertX comes with 3 plugins suitable for integrating with your existing PiHole instance. The first plugin uses the v6 API, the second plugin is using a direct SQLite DB connection, the other leverages the `DHCP.leases` file generated by PiHole. You can combine multiple approaches and also supplement scans with other [plugins](/docs/PLUGINS.md).

## Approach 1: `PIHOLEAPI` Plugin - Import devices directly from PiHole v6 API

![PIHOLEAPI sample settings](./img/PIHOLE_GUIDE/PIHOLEAPI_settings.png)

To use this approach make sure the Web UI password in **Pi-hole** is set.

| Setting | Description | Recommended value |
| :------------- | :------------- | :-------------|
| `PIHOLEAPI_URL` | Your Pi-hole base URL including port.  | `http://192.168.1.82:9880/` |
| `PIHOLEAPI_RUN_SCHD` | If you run multiple device scanner plugins, align the schedules of all plugins to the same value.  | `*/5 * * * *` |
| `PIHOLEAPI_PASSWORD` | The Web UI base64 encoded (en-/decoding handled by the app) admin password. | `passw0rd` |
| `PIHOLEAPI_SSL_VERIFY` | Whether to verify HTTPS certificates. Disable only for self-signed certificates. | `False` |
| `PIHOLEAPI_API_MAXCLIENTS` | Maximum number of devices to request from Pi-hole. Defaults are usually fine. | `500` |
| `PIHOLEAPI_FAKE_MAC` | Generate FAKE MAC from IP. | `False` |

Check the [PiHole API plugin readme](https://github.com/jokob-sk/NetAlertX/tree/main/front/plugins/pihole_api_scan/) for details and troubleshooting.

### docker-compose changes

No changes needed

## Approach 2: `DHCPLSS` Plugin - Import devices from the PiHole DHCP leases file

![DHCPLSS sample settings](./img/PIHOLE_GUIDE/DHCPLSS_pihole_settings.png)

### Settings

| Setting | Description | Recommended value |
| :------------- | :------------- | :-------------|
| `DHCPLSS_RUN` | When the plugin should run.  | `schedule` |
| `DHCPLSS_RUN_SCHD` | If you run multiple device scanner plugins, align the schedules of all plugins to the same value.  | `*/5 * * * *` |
| `DHCPLSS_paths_to_check` | You need to map the value in this setting in the `docker-compose.yml` file. The in-container path must contain `pihole` so it's parsed correctly. | `['/etc/pihole/dhcp.leases']` |

Check the [DHCPLSS plugin readme](https://github.com/jokob-sk/NetAlertX/tree/main/front/plugins/dhcp_leases#overview) for details

### docker-compose changes

| Path | Description |
| :------------- | :------------- |
| `:/etc/pihole/dhcp.leases` |  PiHole's `dhcp.leases` file. Required if you want to use PiHole `dhcp.leases` file. This has to be matched with a corresponding `DHCPLSS_paths_to_check` setting entry (the path in the container must contain `pihole`) |


## Approach 3: `PIHOLE` Plugin - Import devices directly from the PiHole database

![DHCPLSS sample settings](./img/PIHOLE_GUIDE/PIHOLE_settings.png)

| Setting | Description | Recommended value |
| :------------- | :------------- | :-------------|
| `PIHOLE_RUN` | When the plugin should run.  | `schedule` |
| `PIHOLE_RUN_SCHD` | If you run multiple device scanner plugins, align the schedules of all plugins to the same value.  | `*/5 * * * *` |
| `PIHOLE_DB_PATH` | You need to map the value in this setting in the `docker-compose.yml` file. | `/etc/pihole/pihole-FTL.db` |

Check the [PiHole plugin readme](https://github.com/jokob-sk/NetAlertX/tree/main/front/plugins/pihole_scan) for details

### docker-compose changes

| Path | Description |
| :------------- | :------------- |
| `:/etc/pihole/pihole-FTL.db` |  PiHole's `pihole-FTL.db` database file.  |


Check out other [plugins](/docs/PLUGINS.md) that can help you discover more about your network or check how to scan [Remote networks](./REMOTE_NETWORKS.md).
